one of the most prestigious
international literary awards
the annual
Man Booker Prize Marlon James a
professor of English at
Macalester
College in Minnesota is the
first
Jamaican writer to win for his
novel a
brief history of seven killings
jeffrey
Brown talk to him at the Miami
Book Fair
in November this novel is a
sitter jimmy
coco you grew up in rain in the
nineteen
seventies these violent time it
was a
very long time but was also a
time of a
huge explosion in Jamaican
culture and
and you know they're December 6
in some
ways response on incentives in
some ways
responsible for my writing
career
because of all idea of writing
in the
voice of the people writing in
the voice
icon for the moment mouth is a
reggae
concept that is something that
also came
over the centuries which is not
to turn
a blind eye it was a it was a
horrible
time a lot of the time but
picked up on
that influenced so many people
in terms
of the music influenced your
mother's
quite a few Caribbean writers
the points
first certainly but the idea
that you
the the voice the voice of
reason your
most it has always been called
broken
English as it makes ya could be
used to
tell very complicated things
stories
that have no resolution
characters that
you cannot just dismiss or
alright
condemn falling into this kind
of stepan
fetchit can I comedy was
something that
reagan did and that was also
something
that came with the sympathies of
taking
cultural ownership of your own
voice
the plot revolves around
and attempted assassination of
Bob
Marley but it's not a fictional
biography of Marley that snow in
the
background
want to do that you want to send
it with
him in the center but then
everything
else in the center but spinning
wheel
but the stories read about
what's going
on around them if you like that
sense of
being in history but not right
in the
history that we read in the
history yeah
and it's something that's been a
concern
of mine from you know from my
first
novel which sort of Interior
Ministry of
Jamaica's it starts to be about
a bunch
of men and women in the whole
periphery
of the morning but it goes on to
talk
about the cold war and how the
seventies
created it is and how we're
still
reeling from that and making
sense that
you talked about writing for a
sense of
sight and smell the kind of
sensory
perception yeah that comes at
you you
feel that in your writing I feel
like
it's something that I teach you
something that I've been very
sort of
deliberate about because I think
over-reliance a news more to it
than
that were right to a really good
at
invoking all details of
Sebastian Junger
yeah and he will sometimes be
loved
horses in the first 50 words I
didn't
know if he's doing it
consciously yeah
so when you're doing a conscious
consciously because I do I am a
very is
funny cause of action of
mechanical
range of mechanical rating
teacher yeah
and said you know when people
say I felt
like I was there what you're
saying is
you unlocked all five senses and
I think
for example smell carries memory
smell
carries nostalgia was the last
time
community something and I think
these
are really important for this
sort of
Commerce feel especially make
his room
taking them into really negative
territory
and really dark areas so it's
not just
paint a portrait that I can see
it's put
me in there is put you do if
your gonna
figure who took it
what is the pin smell like I was
being
to the Royal Society for the
blind in
England and they were given
special
recognition for the book because
it it
focuses on all other senses
someone who
is visually impaired can still
get a
full sense that a novel as
opposed to so
much of it being locked away
from them
because we're ready so much on
the same
person has been blamed on his
left has
no idea what red means yeah so
how do
you write read questionnaires
which
class you tell someone in israel
an
autoclave were read is that what
is
described read so what you know
the
impact of winning the the Booker
have no
idea I really hope it makes
people more
Curacao Caribbean lid and beyond
caring
anymore we talk about richard
Bennett
within to talk just wondering
which
speaking cuban leaders never
needed
anybody's hell is there is
critical
critical support area code is
always
been Greenwich CT Caribbean also
range
and also some group to greet you
nervous
coming to Barbados injury ago a
brief
history of seven killings Marlon
James
thank you and again
congratulations are
driving me